# womeninthe1940s.com

[womeninthe1940s](https://womeninthe1940s.com/) is a private project by Therese Ambrosi Smith and is a documentation on the women in the 1940s,
a personal blog of her travels and experiences, as well as information about her book, among other things.

## Github Workflow

1) Grab latest update from master
2) Create a new branch off of master
3) Do your work and commit often
4) Create a pull request to merge to master when you're ready to deploy
5) After code review, merge the pull request to master and the site will auto deploy to Cloudflare Pages

## Setup

1) Clone the repo and CD into it
2) Run `npm install` (Uses Node v18.x.x)
3) For local development, run `npm run start`. This will run 11ty, build CSS, build JS and watch and rebuild as you dev.

## Tech Stack (CEAT: Cloudflare, Eleventy, AlpineJS, TailwindCSS)

- [Cloudflare Pages](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/): Hosting, continuous integration, and deployment pipeline.
- [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/): Modern JavaScript based SSG (Static Site Generator).
- [AlpineJS](https://alpinejs.dev/): Alpine is a rugged, minimal tool for composing behavior directly in your markup. Think of it like jQuery for the modern web.
- [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/): A utility-first CSS framework.

## Site Structure

- **_cfg/11ty_**: contains everything required by the .eleventy.js config file: collections, filters, shortcodes, transforms, watch targets, data extensions, passthroughs, plugins, custom template languages, and utilities all go in here. They all get automatically added into the .eleventy.js config file.
- _**src/_data**_: data directory containing static or dynamic local data files. Pretty much standard in Eleventy projects.
- _**src/_includes**_: We use Nunjucks extensively, along with template inheritance and extends, which means layouts, includes and macros must live in this directory. Other supported languages are `.md`, `.11ty.js`, `.liguid`, and `.html`. Html file's render as Nunjucks files, so you may use nunjucks code inside an html file.
  - _**src/_includes/layouts**_: Layouts used by the project. Use template inheritance whenever possible and utilize blocks where possible.
  - _**src/_includes/partials**_: Components that do not require any parameters other than those available in the global template context. Used for things like header, footer, navigation, etc.
- **_src/assets_**: static and processed assets. Contains css, img and js directories. Most of these are handled by a build process, while others, like images are copied by 11ty.
- **_src/content_**: the content of the site, be it Nunjucks, HTML, or Markdown files. We generally use directories to define collections, rather than using tags. For multilingual projects, create subdirectories containing directory data files to define locales as direct children of the content directory.
- **_src/content/blog_**: the blog content of the site. This is generated by using a js file to pass through every single `.md` file in the directory and pass their data into the `post.njk` layout. When adding a new post to the collection, simply create a new directory in the `blog` folder and add a new index.md file along with any assets required in the post, such as images and videos. For documents and audio files, add them to the `src/public` directory.
- **_src/public_**: static assets that are copied to the root of the site. This is where you would put things like favicons, documents in the `docs` directory and audio files.

## License

The following directories and their contents are Copyright [Therese Ambrosi Smith](https://thereseambrosismith.com/):

- src/content
- src/public
- src/assets/images

All other directories and files are licensed under the MIT License.

&copy; [Therese Ambrosi Smith](https://thereseambrosismith.com/). All Right Reserved.
